<?xml version='1.0' encoding='UTF-8' ?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
    xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets"
    xmlns:f="http://java.sun.com/jsf/core"
    xmlns:h="http://java.sun.com/jsf/html"
    xmlns:sh="http://jsfshowcase.palkonyves.hu/jsf-showcases">

<ui:composition template="/resources/templates/t_main.xhtml">
    <ui:debug></ui:debug>
    <ui:define name="main">
        <h1>&lt;ui:debug/&gt;</h1>
        <h2>What is it?</h2>
        <p>
            Works with CTRL+SHIFT+D by default. Use <i>hotkey</i> option
            to define other key e.g. <i>hotkey="h"</i> means
            CTRL+SHIFT+H. When you open the debug window, make sure your
            browser does not prevent opening a pop-up window.
        </p>

        <p>
            The <i>component tree</i> is represented by an XML-like
            structure. The first component you see is the <i>UIViewRoot</i>
            which is the root of the component tree. With <i>CTRL+F</i>
            find the line "hotkey". That represents the <i>&lt;ui:debug&gt;</i>
            component on the page. That component is responsible for
            rendering a small JavaScript function to show the debug
            pop-up window.
        </p>

        <p>
            <i>HtmlPanelGroup</i> component is created by the <i>&lt;h:panelGroup&gt;</i>
            JSF tag. By default <i>&lt;h:panelGroup&gt;</i> is rendered
            as a <i>&lt;span&gt;</i> HTML element. By providing the <i>layout="block"</i>
            attribute, the rendered HTML element is going to be <i>&lt;div&gt;</i>.
        </p>

        <p>
            The list at the bottom of the page (<i>Example output of
                components/ui:repeat</i>) is defined as:
        </p>
        <sh:codeSnippet file="uiDebug.xhtml" snippet="3" />

        <p>
            You can find the component in the debug view by searching
            for "pageListHolder". Within <i>pageListHolder</i> there is
            the <i>UIRepeat</i> then a <i>HtmlOutputTargetLink</i>
            component. Although there are more than one links listed,
            only one component is responsible for all of them. In this
            specific case when we define something within <i>&lt;ui:repeat&gt;</i>.
            When JSF renders the <i>&lt;ui:repeat&gt;</i> tag, it
            updates the state of <i>&lt;link&gt;</i> component in every
            iteration before rendering it to HTML.
        </p>

        <p>
            Another interesting observation is simple HTML tags without
            any JSF specific prefix, or basically any text that cannot
            be interpreted by JSF, is rendered unchanged. This is why
            the <i>&lt;p&gt;</i> tags are not presented as components in
            the debug view.
        </p>

        <h2>How to use it for debugging</h2>

        <p>When something is not shown on the screen that supposed
            to be there, you can check if it is present within the
            component tree.</p>

        <p>When You create conditional rendering, such as</p>
        <pre class="prettyprint">rendered="\#{bean.thisRendered}"</pre>
        <p>
            You can check the value of the <i>rendered</i> attribute to
            make sure, your rendering condition works as expected. For
            that, you can also just type this EL expression somewhere on
            the page and see for yourself what the output is.
        </p>

        <p>
            If you want to take something out of the component tree
            completely on build time, you can use the <i>&lt;ui:remove&gt;</i>
            JSF tag. Anything within this tag will not be presented in
            the comopnent tree. Don't just rely on the the standard XML
            comment syntax.
        </p>

        <h2>Example output of components</h2>

        <h3>ui:remove</h3>
        Below there is something within <i>&lt;ui:remove&gt;</i>not shown in the component tree
        <!-- snippet=1 -->
        <ui:remove>
            <h:outputText>This is not going to be in the component tree</h:outputText>
        </ui:remove>
        <!-- endsnippet -->
        <sh:codeSnippet file="uiDebug.xhtml" snippet="1" />

        <h3>ui:fragment</h3>
        Below is simply not rendered, but shown in the component tree
        
        <!-- snippet=2 -->
        <ui:fragment rendered="false">
           This fragment is within the component tree, but not rendered.
        </ui:fragment>
        <!-- endsnippet -->
        <sh:codeSnippet file="uiDebug.xhtml" snippet="2" />

        <h3>ui:repeat</h3>
        <!-- snippet=3 -->
        <h:panelGroup layout="block" id="pageListHolder">
            <ui:repeat var="page" value="#{index.pages}">
                <h:link outcome="#{page}">#{page}</h:link>
                <br />
            </ui:repeat>
        </h:panelGroup>
        <!-- endsnippet -->

        <h1 class="source">Source code</h1>
        <sh:codeSnippet file="uiDebug.xhtml" showSource="true" />
    </ui:define>
</ui:composition>
</html>